---
title: Browser Extension CG teleconf â€” 05 May 2016
---

  <p><a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-browserext/2016May/0007.html">
  Agenda</a></p>

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/05/05-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees" id="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>Florian Rivoal (Florian), Kris Maglione (kmag), Andy McKay (andy)</dd>

      <dt>Regrets</dt>

      <dd>Mike Pietraszak</dd>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">Native messaging</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">Next meeting</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>

    <li><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of Action Items</a></li>

    <li><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of
    Resolutions</a></li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">
    
    
    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Given the limited
    attendance, this will be a short meeting.<br>
    ... I presume there wasn't a long enough notice for people to
    set aside time to join<br>
    ... and Mike had a last minute conflict.<br>
    ... There's just two points I'd like to briefly touch on
    anyway.</p>

    <h3 id="item01">Native messaging</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> There have been
    discussions on the Mailing list about whether and when we
    should look into Native Messaging.<br>
    ... Given dependencies on the rest, which isn't specified yet,
    it is a bit tricky to specify already.<br>
    ... but at the same time, Mozilla is starting to
    implement.<br>
    ... What we could do is start a separate spec/repo under the
    CG, that depends on the main one.<br>
    ... At first it would only be a dumping ground for issues and
    questions, but it could get fleshed out progressively;<br>
    ... but that only makes sense if someone, presumably from
    Mozilla, is willing to maintain in, and if other people are
    interested in discussing it.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I think it should indeed be
    a separate spec<br>
    ... and I believe that Andrew Swan would be willing to maintain
    it.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> sounds good to me. I can
    brief him on how to be an Editor.<br>
    ... one thing being that he should only accept pull requests
    from members of the CG for IP reasons.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> He isn't a member of the CG
    himself. We'll look into Mozilla's process for having him
    join.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Well, at least Mozilla
    is a member.<br>
    ... Let's record a tentative resolution about getting the draft
    started, with an editor from Mozilla, and we can see later if
    he joins or if someone else picks it up</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> sure</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andy:</cite> OK</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution01"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/5">RESOLUTION: Start a new separate draft for
    Native Messaging, with an editor from Mozilla</a></strong></p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> One thing that will need to
    be in the main draft rather than the native messaging draft is
    how to deal with Ids and registration</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> why?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> because it affects more
    than just native messaging.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> We can record an issue
    in the Native Messaging draft saying that it is needed, but
    should be defined elsewhere.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> makes sense.</p>

    <h3 id="item02">Next meeting</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> 2 weeks from now, same
    time same day of the week. Would that work? Hopefully that
    gives a long enough notice that interested people can join.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andy:</cite> works for me.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> works for me.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Anything else you want
    to talk about today?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> There would be if we had
    more people on the call, but we don't.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Meeting adjourned
    then.</p>
  </div>

  <h2><a name="ActionSummary" id="ActionSummary">Summary of Action
  Items</a></h2>
<!-- Action Items -->

  <h2><a name="ResolutionSummary" id="ResolutionSummary">Summary of
  Resolutions</a></h2>
<!-- Resolutions -->

  <ol>
    <li><a href="#resolution01">Start a new separate draft for
    Native Messaging, with an editor from Mozilla</a></li>
  </ol><br>
  

  

  
