---
title: Browser Extension CG TPAC meeting — 22 Sep 2016
date: 2016-09-22
---

  <p><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/wiki/2016-TPAC-Agenda">
  Agenda</a></p>

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/09/22-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees" id="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>Florian (Florian Rivoal, Vivliostyle), mikepie (Mike Pietraszak, Microsoft), kmag(Kris Maglione, Mozilla),
      Erik (Erik Anderson, Bloomberg), andrey-rybka (Andrey Rybka, Bloomberg), andersR (Anders Rundgren)</dd>

      <dt>Regrets</dt>

      <dt>Chairs</dt>

      <dd>Florian, andrey-rybka</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">Agenda</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">Promises in async methods</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item03">Per-browser API support
        reporting</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item04">Confirm top object name
        (browser)</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item05">Confirm protocol name proposed on
        2016/06/09 ("browserext://")</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item06">Status and next steps for Native
        Messaging spec</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item07">Unique ID algorithm/scheme (e.g.
        browserext://&lt;ID_GOES_HERE&gt;)</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item08">Manifest format</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item09">CG Logo</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item10">Status of extended attribute
        "checkAnyPermissions"</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item11">Testing with WebDriver</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item12">Next steps for this CG. Should we
        form a WG?</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item13">spec review</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item14">Native messaging</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>

    <li><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of Action Items</a></li>

    <li><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of
    Resolutions</a></li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">
    
    <h3 id="item01">Agenda</h3>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>mikepie</b>&gt; <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/wiki/2016-TPAC-Agenda">
    https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/wiki/2016-TPAC-Agenda</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Any suggestion /
    addition / change to the agenda?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>all:</b> Going top down seems good.</p>

    <h3 id="item02">Promises in async methods</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I just think this is
    something we should do, and would like feedback.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> I agree, but how
    does this relate to extensions?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Chrome APIs use callbacks,
    but they don't compose nicely.
    Promises are better.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> A goal of this group is
    compatibility with what's out there, so that's a source of tension.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I'd like to release a
    polyfill, which would bridge that gap.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> It would be good to be
    as close as possible to Chrome, but as that is a moving target,
    it may be difficult to have the spec really match that. So
    specifying what we think is best, and bridging the gap with a
    polyfill can make sense.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Promises is something a
    lot of people want anyway, so that would also encourage people
    to develop this version of extensions, and use a polyfill to
    make that work on Chrome.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> We only have 1 namespace
    in Edge (browser), so I can see with our engineering team to
    see if we can have two, one with promises, and one with
    callbacks to be Chrome compatible, as Mozilla is doing.
    We'll look into it.
    We prefer to use promises, but we want to be careful about compat.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> In our promises based API,
    we also accept callbacks.</p>
<a name="action01" id="action01"></a>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>scribe</b>&gt;
    <strong>ACTION:</strong> mikepie to check whether a promises
    based API is doable [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/12">
    https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/12]</a></p>

    <h3 id="item03">Per-browser API support reporting</h3>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/platform/catalog/">
    https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/platform/catalog/</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/browserAction#Browser_compatibility">
    https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/browserAction#Browser_compatibility</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> As we move forward with
    implementation, we've found examples of how browsers document
    what's supported across browsers.
    This tool compares IDL and implementations, and give you a
    visualization.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Really nice.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> MDN also has this kind
    of information in a different format.<br>
    What should be the next step?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> On MDN, we would list
    everything that's on the spec, and list support, and also
    mention deviations from the spec.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> If we have webIDL, we
    can do that visual representation, and fold that in.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We have tools to extract
    doc from webIDL. I can talk to our people about that.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> For MS, webIDL is the
    source for this.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We have a database with
    JSON in it.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> What does “no” mean
    in this MDN page?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> It just means “not
    supported”.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>AndersR:</b> FF on android is all
    noes.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> That's just the release
    version.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I think we're going to
    do both approaches, we'll work with MDN and see if we can
    integrate. We'll reach out to other browser vendors as well.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Can you work with our json
    database?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Yes.</p>

    <h3 id="item04">Confirm top object name (browser)</h3>

    <p class="phone"><a href="http://browserext.github.io/minutes/2016-06-09.html">http://browserext.github.io/minutes/2016-06-09.html</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Just wanted to make sure everyone had a say.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Shwetank pushed back a bit, but only a bit, and everyone else is in agreement.</p>

    <h3 id="item05">Confirm protocol name proposed on 2016/06/09 ("browserext://")</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I got some feedback that
    that some people expect a dash between browser and ext, but I
    am fine that way.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I'm fine with this.<br>
    It seems more usual for a protocol not to have a dash.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'm fine with it, but others
    have used a dash, so some expect consistency.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> No strong opinion either way.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>kmag</b>&gt; List of registered
    URI schemes: <a href="http://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes/uri-schemes.xhtml">
    http://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes/uri-schemes.xhtml</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I don't want to do this
    twice, whatever we pick, let's stick to it.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> So we keep it as it
    is.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Yes, every other protocol is dashless,
    except some vendor specific things, which this is not.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Makes sense.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> So we keep it as
    previously resolved.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Dashes seem more
    appropriate for vendor prefixing.</p>

    <h3 id="item06">Status and next steps for Native Messaging spec</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> aswan didn't have time to
    update the draft yet.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>AndersR:</b> Google has expressed
    non-interest in doing it on mobile, which makes it problematic given their market share.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We would like to implement
    something similar for android, based on web intents.<br>
    ... We're basically starting from scratch there</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> We could meet about
    that, and and get as many browser vendors for this.<br>
    ... We should make something that works for everybody</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I would like the android
    API to be as similar as possible to the desktop one, except for
    how you register.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> How about iOS?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> iOS is more complicated,
    there's only one browser vendor, and everyone else embeds
    webview.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>AndersR:</b> Have you talked to
    apple</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Yes, but they don't
    comment.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>AndersR:</b> I talked to the TAG and
    web app sec, but they say they are not interested in native
    messaging because it is not the web.<br>
    ... I think it is relevant, but they're not responsive.<br>
    ... You can already start applications with intents, but then
    you cannot communicate with them.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Erik:</b> We already know that for
    payments it's not going to happen.<br>
    ... To get other vendors onboard, we need to get them engaged
    for payments.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>AndersR:</b> There's ApplePay for the
    web, which does some form of communication, sending data back
    and forth, which is what you'd want for this and other
    applications...</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Erik:</b> Nowadays browsers engines
    are getting embedded into things (CEF for instance), and for
    these use cases, native messaging is super important.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Agreed.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> If some other group
    wants to do it for the web platform in general, we should talk
    to them, but we're not the group to do it for the whole
    platform.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Erik:</b> Payments can be the trojan
    horse, it needs this, and people care.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> We need to have a
    conversation with browser vendors, and a separate conversation
    focused on the payment scenario.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Should we make a joint
    statement from browser ext and web payments to the TAG (and
    Web Platform WG?) about the importance of native messaging?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Erik:</b> Payments absolutely needs
    it, there's no other way to pull it off.</p>

<a name="action02" id="action02"></a>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>scribe</b>&gt;
    <strong>ACTION:</strong> Erik and Florian and Mike to work on a
    joint statement about the importance of native messaging
    [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6">
    https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6]</a></p>

    <h3 id="item07">Unique ID algorithm/scheme (e.g. browserext://&lt;ID_GOES_HERE&gt;)</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> There are different ways
    to generate that unique ID.<br>
    ... The chrome store will do it for you when you submit an
    extension; also installation generates one if there wasn't one.<br>
    ... How can we get that to work cross browser?<br>
    ... Do we need to come up with an algo?<br>
    ... The goal is to uniquely identify an extension, and we want
    to avoid spoofing.<br>
    ... Maybe we can let the author come up with it but the browser enforces it, to avoid the spoofing.<br>
    ... The browser could refuse to to install a second extension
    with the same id.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Firefox uses signing but that doesn't work cross browser well</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Is the FF approach
    unique?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> No, Edge also. Opera probably as well.<br>
    ... Within the extension code, you don't have to hardcode it, you can get it at runtime.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> In FF we generate a random
    id in every sessions, but that doesn't work well for permissions.<br>
    ... Chrome supports native messaging, cross ext messaging, and
    from site to extension, and they do all that based on the ID.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Is that what you
    want to do as well?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Yes, but having
    different ids per browser breaks that.<br>
    There's no way to do this without central registration.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Maybe decentralized, but
    that's tricky.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> You need some kind of singing as well.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>Erik</b>&gt; Something to note
    about Web Payments. Any implementer of a Web Payment API also
    enters the fraud liability chain. The browser is NOT a secure
    environment for payments initiation. Implementers of a payment
    scheme need to do it in a cros browser way.</p>

    <h3 id="item08">Manifest format</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> We can have a look at
    the spec.<br>
    ... There are a few things in there that aren't in any
    implementation today.<br>
    ... We had some discussions at MS about required keys.<br>
    ... People we supportive of that, to avoid being stuck with v1.<br>
    ... The MS team though it could be called required capabilities instead of required keys.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Sounds reasonable.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I think the mechanism is important, but I don't care about the name.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> From a developer point of view,
    having standardized manifest is really important and makes things easier.<br>
    ... Right now the portability isn't good.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Erik:</b> This is also a lock-in problem.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> We already have a bit of a draft, we just need to keep refining.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> The way we've done
    it, you can have extra keys, and they just get ignored (not
    break everything).</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>mikepie</b>&gt; <a href="https://browserext.github.io/browserext/">https://browserext.github.io/browserext/</a></p>

    <h3 id="item09">CG Logo</h3>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12">https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/LogoIdeas.png">https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/LogoIdeas.png</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I like 10.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> I like 9.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> 9 is good too.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> I like all but 7.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Not 7 or 8.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Add the X to 10?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Erik:</b> I like 10, with “EXT” in there somehow.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'll do another round to try to fit the “EXT” in there.</p>
<a name="action03" id="action03"></a>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>scribe</b>&gt;
    <strong>ACTION:</strong> mike to do a new iteration, centered
    around 10 or 9, with EXT or X somwhere in there [recorded in
    <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-249741948">
    https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-249741948]</a></p>

    <h3 id="item10">Status of extended attribute “checkAnyPermissions”</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> bzbarsky is here.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Yes, but crazy busy.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Maybe we can catch him during a break.<br>
    ... I talked to Travis, also a contributor, he'd be happy to chat about this.<br>
    ... There's also Yves.<br>
    ... So we can reach to them today.<br>
    ... I'll talk to Travis; kmag can you catch zbarsky?<br>
    ... Just to make sure they look for our email.</p>

    <h3 id="item11">Testing with WebDriver</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Had a good review with the browser testing and tools group.<br>
    ... We discussed the extensions to test the extensions; the feedback was positive.<br>
    ... They expect others to do similar extensions.
    ... But as our proposal is strictly additive, they think we should host it ourselves rather than add it to their spec.<br>
    ... I can do that and include it in the browserext spec, section 2.7</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Sounds good. Later on we
    can split into a new spec if this stabilizes at a different
    speed but this is a good initial host for it at least.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We can host most of it
    here, but some parts of the mother spec do need changes, so we
    will need to keep talking to them.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>AndersR:</b> Can you test the API without using an actual extension?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> In Edge, you would need an extension to be loaded for these APIS to be available.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> If you're doing this server side, you may not have a browser.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> There are several use
    cases:<br>
    ... Extension authors want to test their extensions.<br>
    ... Site authors may want to test compat with popular extensions.<br>
    ... Also, browser vendors testing the extensions API themselves.<br>
    ... One more use case is for this group to test for compliance.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I think we should have a test suite
    for browsers to test compatibility, based on what web platform and other w3c groups
    do successfully.<br>
    Specifically, we want to emulate Web Platform Tests or if possible
    actually become part of WPT.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Everything in one test
    suite would be good for us.<br>
    ... Our API works by generating extensions on the fly based on
    JSON, and communicating with the test driver.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Does this run
    headless?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> This is complicated; mostly we run in VMs or on bare hardware</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> It is very heavy</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Yes, but necessary.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Are you sure?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We have tests that don't
    use UI, but there are things you cannot test that way.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> I have a selenium
    grid, but that's horribly slow.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> It's fine to look at
    something for messaging similar to the Chrome test API.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>mikepie</b>&gt; Having an
    API way or extensions to interop/signal with test harness is
    good, but we should also support other ways to interop with
    extensions, since commercial extensions won't signal the
    harness.</p>

    <h3 id="item12">Next steps for this CG. Should we form a
    WG?</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I think at some point we
    should transition the work into a WG, but I don't want to kill
    the momentum with administrative work.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I would also like to
    expand a bit more the work we do on the testing and
    implementation side before we make that jump.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Agreed.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Agreed.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> So we'll keep going as a
    CG for now.</p>

    <h3 id="item13">spec review</h3>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>andrey-rybka</b>&gt; <a href="https://browserext.github.io/browserext/">https://browserext.github.io/browserext/</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I have some editorial
    work to do, but no need to discuss that.<br>
    ... I added 3 use cases, do you feel they are appropriate.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> the 3rd one seems
    privacy sensitive, but feels in scope.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> yes, but at the same
    time it is not part of the APIs we have specified so far.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Cookies feel like they
    belong here, bookmarks is more tricky.<br>
    ... For messaging, we need to resolve the id issue.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Should we talk
    about native messaging?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> It is in a separate
    spec.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> section 2.1.1 needs to
    say what happens when you try some of the non allowed things.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We should define this in
    terms of the default CSP spec, which does say all these
    things.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> I agree.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think we need a separate
    section to deal with content scripts and how they interact with
    CSP; in Chrome they can inject content to violate CSP.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> How does that
    happen?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Content injected by
    extension content script, such as scripts or images, which
    would violate the page's CSP are accepted by Chrome. The
    exception is things like event listener attributes
    (onmousedown="..."), which are not evaluated while the
    extension context is on the stack, and are still subject to
    CSP.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>AndersR:</b> I do not understand the
    4th bullet in 2.1.1</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> There's sandboxing, and
    content scripts cannot call functions into the page.<br>
    So if I want to modify a onclick ... <br>
    I'll get back to this later when I have a better way to
    explain.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think that should be a
    separate section.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Shall we go section
    by section, or issue by issue?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> let's go with
    issues.<br>
    ... We currently don't talk in the spec about
    programmatic/runtime granting of permissions, so this listing of optional permissions is kind of of odd
    here.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We should remove it for
    now.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> This is something we can
    add back later without compat issue, right?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Right.</p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/8"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution01">RESOLUTION: drop optional permissions from the
    spec</strong></a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Should there be a
    read-only attribute EventListener onClicked?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I don't understand the
    question.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'll follow up.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> What about issue
    5?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> We should be consistent
    about how we name the types and the parameters<br>
    ... I'm going to switch everything to use details.</p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/9"<strong class="resolution" id="resolution02">RESOLUTION: Change all the naming to use
    details</strong></a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> Should we prefix
    all names with Browser or BrowserExt etc?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Currently this is
    inconsistent.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Yes, we need to prefix
    things, WebIDL stuff shares a namespace.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Should we do
    BrowserExtBrowserFoo, or just BrowserExtFoo?</p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/10"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution03">RESOLUTION: prefix all with BrowserExt and the
    object name</strong></a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Do we need the extension
    object?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think we should keep it
    but note that it is deprecated.<br>
    ... It is still necessary for a few things, but we shouldn't be
    adding to it.<br>
    ... Things that are already in runtime shouldn't be duplicated
    there.<br>
    ... I don't think you need getbackground page.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Not sure.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Can we decide on the
    high level principle and just let the editor deal with it?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think these are already
    in runtime, they don't need them.</p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/11"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution04">RESOLUTION: drop the extension object,
    reintroduce later if needed</strong></a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Issue 11 is a work item
    for me to go fix the types appropriately.</p>

    <h3 id="item14">Native messaging</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Mike, Andrey do you want
    to engage with aswan to help get the ball rolling</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> yes</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> yes</p>

    <hr>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> When should we have the next meeting?<br>
    ... In two weeks?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> On 5th (US)?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-rybka:</b> sure</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> works for me<br>
    ... Ok, let's do that, same time as usual.</p>
  </div>

  <h2><a name="ActionSummary" id="ActionSummary">Summary of Action
  Items</a></h2>
<!-- Action Items -->
  <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> Erik and Florian
  and Mike to work on a joint statement about the importance of
  native messaging [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6</a>]<br>

  <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> mike to do a new
  iteration, centered around 10 or 9, with EXT or X somwhere in
  there [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-249741948">https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-249741948</a>]<br>

  <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> mikepie to check
  whether a promises based API is doable [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/12">https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/12]<br>

   <br>

  <h2><a name="ResolutionSummary" id="ResolutionSummary">Summary of
  Resolutions</a></h2>
<!-- Resolutions -->

  <ol>
    <li><a href="#resolution01">drop optional permissions from the
    spec</a></li>

    <li><a href="#resolution02">Change all the naming to use
    details</a></li>

    <li><a href="#resolution03">prefix all with BrowserExt and the
    object name</a></li>

    <li><a href="#resolution04">drop the extension object,
    reintroduce later if needed</a></li>
  </ol><br>
  

  

  
