---
title: Browser Extension CG teleconf â€” 16 Nov 2016
date: 2016-11-16
---

  <p><a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-browserext/2016Nov/0000.html">
  Agenda</a></p>

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/11/16-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>mikepie (Mike Pietraszak), kmag (Kris Maglione), aswan (Andrew Swan), andrey-r (Andrey Rybka), Florian (Florian Rivoal)</dd>

      <dt>Regrets</dt>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">Agenda</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">Native messaging spec</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item03">Browser Extension Spec</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item04">Logo</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item05">Next meeting</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>

    <li><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of Action Items</a></li>

    <li><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of
    Resolutions</a></li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">

    <h3 id="item01">Agenda</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Anything to discuss
    besides what's listed in the mail?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Nope, looks good.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> Discussing common
    IDs.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> It's issue number 3 in
    my spec.</p>

    <h3 id="item02">Native messaging spec</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> I finally pushed a draft
    out yesterday.<br>
    ... Narrowing the scope last month helped, so it should be
    short.<br>
    ... So now we have something to review and work on.<br>
    ... Mike, have you looked at it?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Not yet, but I should be
    able to within a week.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> Can't complain, I've taken my time to get this far :)</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I should be able to look as well.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> I'll give it a look as
    well, but you guys are the experts.<br>
    ... aswan, anything you want to ask the group about
    already?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> Native messaging is using the
    ports object, like regular messaging. I was hoping to be able to
    reference the primary spec. Just not sure about how to do the
    citation.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Florian has shown me how
    to do proper links, I'll send you the doc.</p>

    <aside class="note">
	    <p>Some ReSpec documentation about cross references:</p>
	    <ul>
		    <li><a href="https://github.com/w3c/respec/wiki/User's-Guide#definitions-and-linking">Linking to definitions</a></li>
		    <li><a href="https://github.com/w3c/respec/wiki/User's-Guide#references">Linking to other specs</a></li>
	    </ul>
    </aside>
    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> I'd rather avoid
    duplicating things.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Absolutely, and the
    tools should help you to it.<br>
    ... I know more about Bikeshed than respec, but both should be
    helping us cross referencing, we just need to look at the
    documentation.</p>


    <h3 id="item03">Browser Extension Spec</h3>

    <aside class="note">
	    <p>This discussion refers to <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/pull/39">pull request 39</a>,
	    with <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/pull/39/commits/1f747cd311055c6e45dbb80e351fad72c8173fa4">commit 1f747cd31</a> being at the tip of the branch.</p>
	    <p>Issue numbers are autogenerated and will not be valid for a differet state of the specification.</p>
    </aside>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I've made a number of changes to address open issues in the spec. I'll walk you through
    the changes I'm about to merge.<br>
    ... Issue 1&amp;2: I haven't addressed these yet. Will be the next
    thing I do.<br>
    ... Issue 3: Now let's talk about IDs. I have not been able to talk to
    the broader team about kmag's proposal. I will soon, but not
    yet, so can't resolve today.<br>
    ... Issues 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8: these are things we already agreed about, so I've
    removed them. I used to leave resolved issue in the spec in green instead of red,
    but it is easier to follow if they are removed.<br>
    ... Issue 9: not addressed yet, but will be called issue 4
    after merging due to resolved issues being removed.<br>
    ... Issue 10, 11, 12, 13 are already resolved.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> I don't recall what I
    meant about issue 14</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Since nobody remembers,
    I7m removing the issue. To be reopened if someone remembers and
    cares.<br>
    ... Issue 15, 16: previously solved issues, removing.<br>
    ... Issue 17: This still needs to be done. It is about which
    DOMString is nullable.<br>
    ... Issue 18&amp;19: previously addressed, removing.<br>
    ... I've added section 2.2.2 about promises and
    callbacks.<br>
    ... I think it makes sense to switch to promises, but we
    haven't closed on this internally.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Can we spec promises,
    and try and push that to your team? When do you meet?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I expect we'll be able
    to resolve quickly.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> I wonder what we do if
    you push back.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I think we'll be
    ok.<br>
    ... We just need to go through it, and haven't yet.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> You've made it a subsection of
    Events, but that looks misplaced.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Yeah, it should move up
    one level, maybe 2.3.<br>
    ... Issues 20 and 21 are about the i18n object. kmag said there is
    some content we could reuse. Is that the one linked from the
    issue?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I commented in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/24">issue 24</a>.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Great, I'll use that.<br>
    ... Issue 22: last time we said we might not need LastError,
    but would keep onInstalled.<br>
    ... I've done that.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Wasn't leaving out
    LastError related to using promises?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Yes, I'm half way
    through, that'll push me over maybe.<br>
    ... Issue 23: we suggested adding captureVisibleTabs, but not
    onReplaced, kmag, is that correct?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> yes.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> So that's what I
    did.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> I think there was a
    follow up on github about onReplaced after the call.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I'll check github again,
    but I don't think we needed it. There is always a workaround for every situation I've looked at.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> This is pretty browser
    specific, I don't think we need it.<br>
    ... It doesn't work the way I'd guess, and it doesn't seem to
    follow the description. Even after having tried to implement
    it.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Issue 24: I still need to
    do this one. This is about properly declaring the right type of
    integers.<br>
    ... Issue 25: I have not addressed this yet.<br>
    ... Issue 26. I have now linked to the right part of the CSP,
    but we still need to get into the details, so the issue is not
    resolved.<br>
    ... Issue 27 through 30: all resolved in the previous version,
    removing the resolved issues now.<br>
    ... Issue 31: What else in addition to the string that gets
    displayed as a title should we use to identify as an
    extension?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> I think we need both
    the title and the id.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> In how many places do we
    show these strings in?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> In Edge, 3: the store,
    the management UI, what you get with a tooltip if you hover
    over the browser action or page action.<br>
    ... I don't think we'd want one for the store, but the management
    UI, and the tooltip, maybe.<br>
    ... In general having the id is more reliable,<br>
    ... but for simple test cases, using the strings can be more
    convenient. And the strings sound like something you may want to test
    as well.<br>
    ... Ok, sounds good. I'll make the update as we seem to
    agree.<br>
    ... Issue 32 is about adding a type indicator. I've added
    check boxes, radio buttons, a standard item and a
    separator.<br>
    ... Issue 33 is not addressed yet.<br>
    ... Neither is 34.<br>
    ... Issue 35: kmag I think you suggested at TPAC that we may
    want to support user permissions and prompts.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I think we need to talk to
    the permission WG<br>
    ... but the issue comes up when you are trying to use something
    that causes a permission prompt to pop up.<br>
    ... We need a way to deal with them.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I understand now. I'll
    clean that up and get in touch with the permission WG.<br>
    ... Issue 36 about the life time of extensions. I've added
    section 6.2.1<br>
    ... [summarises spec]<br>
    ... Issue 37: previously resolved.<br>
    ... Will merge issue 38 with 35.<br>
    ... Issue 39: still TBD.<br>
    ... Everybody OK with the pull request being merged?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>all:</cite> [nod]</p>

    <h3 id="item04">Logo</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> We're no longer an egg
    on twitter.<br>
    ... kmag, have you checked with the Mozilla design folks?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> Not yet, do I need to wait
    on something?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> I don't think so.</p>

    <h3 id="item05">Next meeting</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> How about same time
    december 14?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> OK</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> OK</p>
  </div>
