---
title: Browser Extension CG teleconf — 21 Jul 2016
date: 2016-07-21
---

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/07/21-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees" id="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>Andrew Swan (aswan), Mike Pietraszak (mikepie), Florian Rivoal (Florian), Kris Maglione (kmag), Andrey Rybka (andrey-r)</dd>

      <dt>Regrets</dt>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">Status update</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">TPAC meeting</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item03">WebDriver additions for
        Extensions</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>

    <li><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of Action Items</a></li>

    <li><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of
    Resolutions</a></li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">
    

    

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>scribe</b>&gt; Scribenick:
    Florian</p>

    <h3 id="item01">Status update</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Follow up registration
    of the protocol handler:<br>
    ... I'm waiting to hear from Shwetank,<br>
    ... but I have not heard back yet.<br>
    ... I'll ping him.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> It would be polite. By
    our rules, silence implies agreement, so we can move forward
    anyway though.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'll try to check with
    him when he's back from vacation, and submit in a week if I don't hear
    back.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> aswan is now a member,
    so he can edit the spec I've set up. I just need to know your
    github id.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>aswan:</b> It is “aswan”.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I think we had a
    dependency on WebIDL, was that the case, and what's the
    status?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think we wanted to change
    something in the mail, but I don't remember what. Looking at
    the minutes.<br>
    ... But I think we're actually blocked on that, any feedback
    would be minor changes.</p>

    <p class="irc"><a href="http://browserext.github.io/minutes/">http://browserext.github.io/minutes/</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Good. So we can get going on
    the specs.</p>

    <h3 id="item02">TPAC meeting</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-r:</b> I saw our meeting was
    confirmed, great.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> There's a new scheduling
    conflict with a Digital Publishing event. Should we reschedule?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>all:</b> No, it's ok.</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution01"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/11">RESOLUTION: Keep the TPAC meeting
    schedule</a></strong></p>

    <h3 id="item03">WebDriver additions for Extensions</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> We will eventually want
    to develop an automated test suite to validate extension
    hosts.<br>
    ... To do that, there's somethings that we need that you cannot
    do with Webdriver.<br>
    ... You can already install an extension<br>
    ... but you cannot interact with popups, or activate the
    extension</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>andrey-r</b>&gt; I agree as well
    wptdriver support would be very much welcome</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I agree this is
    needed.<br>
    ... Did you have concrete proposals on the missing pieces?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I have written a
    document, I can share it.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>kmag</b>&gt; <a href="http://rawgit.com/dhbrett/webdriver/extensions_reduced/webdriver-spec.html">
    http://rawgit.com/dhbrett/webdriver/extensions_reduced/webdriver-spec.html</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Not sure what the next
    step is.<br>
    ... The document shared above is has extensions over the
    original one. How do we move forward?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> The proper way would be
    to follow the WebDriver group's practices, and either send a pull
    request, or a mail to their list.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I have colleagues
    involved, I'll check with them what's the proper way.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We should get developer
    feedback as well.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Will do.</p>

    <p class="phone">ACTION: mikepie to post this to the browserext
    and webdriver group for comments [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/10">https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/10</a>]</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> We may want to chime in
    the WebDriver meeting at TPAC as well.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I think they're meeting
    on Monday and Tuesday.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I can't attend then, but
    you don't need me.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I should be able to attend
    if I can prepare early enough for travel.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>andrey-r</b>&gt; <a href="https://www.w3.org/2016/09/TPAC/schedule.html">https://www.w3.org/2016/09/TPAC/schedule.html</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>andrey-r:</b> Testing group meets on
    monday as well.</p>
  </div>

  <h2><a name="ActionSummary" id="ActionSummary">Summary of Action
  Items</a></h2>
<!-- Action Items -->
<strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> mikepie to post this to the browserext
    and webdriver group for comments [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/10">https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/10</a>]<br>

    <br>

  <h2><a name="ResolutionSummary" id="ResolutionSummary">Summary of
  Resolutions</a></h2>
<!-- Resolutions -->

  <ol>
    <li><a href="#resolution01">Keep the TPAC meeting
    schedule</a></li>
  </ol><br>
  

  

  
