---
title: Browser Extension CG teleconf — 06 Oct 2016
date: 2016-10-06
---

  <p><a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-browserext/2016Oct/0000.html">
  Agenda</a></p>

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/10/06-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees" id="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>mikepie (Mike Pietraszak), Florian (Florian Rivoal), kmag (Kris Maglione)</dd>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">Agenda</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">extended attribute</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item03">Joint statement on native
        messaging</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item04">Status update on
        https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item05">standardizing IDs</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item06">Logo</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item07">Reviewing / resolving issues in
        https://browserext.github.io/browserext/</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item08">Community involvement</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item09">meeting</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">

    <h3 id="item01">Agenda</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Anything else to add to
    the agenda?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I'd like to talk about
    standardizing IDs.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Let's talk about
    extended attributes as well.</p>

    <h3 id="item02">Extended attributes</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> We have some direct
    contacts what should help get the ball rolling by lightly
    prodding the right people.</p>

    <h3 id="item03">Joint statement on native messaging</h3>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/wiki/Explainer:-the-need-for-native-messaging">
    https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/wiki/Explainer:-the-need-for-native-messaging</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> This is a first
    incomplete draft of the join statement we mentioned during
    TPAC.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I am not sure this is
    really necessary.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Not sure either, but I
    think it's not wrong to ping people who worry about the whole
    web platform if we're doing something that might matter to more
    than to just ourselves.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Looks like a good start,
    will ping people at MS.<br>
    ... What do we do once we have this?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I'll ping the TAG and
    see what they think of it.</p>

    <h3 id="item04">Status update on <a href="https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/">https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/</a>
</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Anything to speak about
    without aswan on the call?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Not really.</p>

    <h3 id="item05">standardizing IDs</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Have we though about
    using URLs (as in including a domain name in there) for IDs?
    You'd still have to map the ID to the application, but at least
    we'd get a clean space without too much colision problems.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We'd need a way to verify
    you own the domain, and some way to associate the ID with the
    application... Seems complicated.<br>
    ... Maybe we could instead share our ID database from the
    respective vendor stores and allow registration on each store, but stores would
    check with the other stores that the ID is free.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Doesn't that lock us out
    of native messaging when not using app stores for distribution?
    Like private extensions, or enterprise distribution...</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think it's ok. Enterprise
    works with its own rules anyway, and the single developer use
    case doesn't really involve distribution, so it is ok.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> How about having 2 ids?
    a shared one that is unique across stores and one that is
    unique in your own store?<br>
    ... I guess that doesn't help.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Has our various
    companies already solved a similar problem, and can we talk to
    the people who did that?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> There's globaly unique Ids,
    which deals with avoiding collisions, but it doesn't help with
    central registration<br>
    ... How about : when I submit to the FF store, and it generates
    a unique ID for me. Then I use that ID to register in the MS
    store.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> But that allows for
    spoofing.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Only if the end user can do
    it, so we shouldn't allow.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Can we combine that with
    the domain name id?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I don't see how.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Should we ping crypto /
    security / ssl / ssh / etc people? They should be more familiar
    than us with this kind of issues.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Let's do that, I know
    some folks.</p>

    <h3 id="item06">Logo</h3>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12">https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12</a></p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>mikepie</b>&gt; <a href="https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/LogoIdeas.png">https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/LogoIdeas.png</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Number 2 is unfinished,
    it will read ext instead of cxt.<br>
    ... 1 and 6 may not work at small sizes</p>

    <p class="phone">Florian I like 2 4 and 8</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> 4 looks like XML.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I like 4 5 and 8.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'll clean up 2 4 5 and
    8.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I'll also try to involve
    our designers.</p>

    <h3 id="item07">Reviewing / resolving issues in <a href="https://browserext.github.io/browserext/">https://browserext.github.io/browserext/</a>
</h3>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<b>mikepie</b>&gt; <a href="https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/">https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Any particular issue you
    want feedback / discussion on?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Not sure, let's just
    start with giving you an update:<br>
    ... I merged the webdriver part.<br>
    ... I also changed the naming convension, so that everything
    starts with BrowserExt, and unified Info/etc into Details<br>
    ... I added a script to facilitate navigating through
    issues.<br>
    ... so the thing I want input on is Issue 35, about some methods needing to be a POST
    instead of a GET.<br>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> There are two methods that
    need to be POST, because they have side effects:
    “Get Browser Extension Context Menu Items”
    and
    “Select Browser Extension Context Menu Item”.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> OK. I'll be doing a new
    iteration on this tomorrow, and then the section should be
    ready for review.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Skipping the issues that
    are TODOs to yourself, it would be nice to register the issues
    that need discussions into github.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Will do.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Should we provide regex for
    comment removal?<br>
    ... I'll register than into github, OK?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Sounds good.</p>

    <h3 id="item08">Community involvement</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> A while back we talked
    about trying to reach out to more people and try to get them
    involved, to comment on the spec.<br>
    ... As we're starting to have a spec with issues to discuss,
    are we at that point, or would it still be a waste of time for
    most people to come at this point?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'd like to look at some
    usage data to check first that we have the key APIs that people
    will want to look at to avoid disapointing them, but other than
    that yes, we should be able to now.<br>
    ... I can look for extension vendors that can already use the
    stuff we have<br>
    ... If Andrey had some specific vendors in mind, that let's us
    look at it from the other direction and ask them what they
    think is missing.</p>

    <h3 id="item09">Next meeting</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Let's try in two
    weeks.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Should we try and adjust
    the time for aswan?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Yes, and for Shwetank as
    well.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Let's book the same time
    for now, and in parallel try and talk to them. We can adjust if
    they propose something that works better.</p>
  </div>
