---
title: Browser Extension CG teleconf — 20 Oct 2016
date: 2016-10-20
---

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/10/20-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>Florian Rivoal (Florian), Mike Pietraszak (mikepie), Kris Maglione (kmag), Anders Rundgren (AndersR), Andrew Swan (aswan), Shwetank Dixit (shwetank)</dd>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">Joint statment</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item03">Logo</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item04">https://browserext.github.io/browserext/</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item05">next meeting</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>

    <li><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of Action Items</a></li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">

    <h3 id="item01">Joint statment</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Where do we go from the
    basic draft we have?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I can understand from an
    implementation perspective how these two might overlap
    but I am not sure I understand how it helps us to raise
    this to the TAG etc.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> To me the idea is to
    notify the TAG that we’re working on an area where it seems
    that other groups have interest working on as well. We’re about
    to do our own thing, but if a grand unifying solution should be
    made instead, they should wake up now and kick off something,
    otherwise, we’ll do our thing.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>AndersR:</cite> I have tried to interest
    the TAG in such things before, but they didn’t pay attention.
    I’m just an individual, but if there is more people interested
    in the topic, including large corps, maybe they’ll pay
    attention this time.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Who was on the web
    payment side? Erik?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Yes, but we haven’t
    talked since TPAC.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>AndersR:</cite> Someone from Google as
    well.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I’d be curious to hear
    about what they think. I don’t think what they’re doing
    requires explicit native messaging,
    even if there may be such a thing as an underlying mechanism.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> so I suggest we keep
    moving forward with our specs, and in parallel use that
    statement to alert the broader community and see if we get
    feedback.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Can we try directly
    engage with the web payment folks first, maybe in a call,
    before spending too much time on a formal statement?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Sure.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>scribe</cite>&gt;
    <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> Florian to try and arrange a call with web payment people
    [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6#issuecomment-255313904">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6#issuecomment-255313904</a>]</p>

    <h3 id="item02"><a href="https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/">https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/</a></h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> Mike has done a lot of
    work, and made an outline for the draft.<br>
    ... Mike explained that Edge is planing to take a different
    route from Mozilla and Chrome on some aspects, so we decided to
    leave these parts unspecified.<br>
    ... Where we are differing is the actual protocol between the
    browser and the native app.<br>
    ... The part that will be specified then is permissions, the
    manifest, and the API that the browser exposes to the web
    app.<br>
    ... IPC and finding applications would be out of scope.<br>
    ... That will simplify what the spec needs to cover.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> So setting up the
    environment, launching the app, etc would be non standard, but
    talking to it would be, right?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> Essentially.<br>
    ... That enables more platform integration and doing things the
    native way.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Yes. A way to look at
    this is that we are standardizing the web part, but the native
    part remains system specific.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> We’re not trying to
    recreate flash or NPAPI, and not trying to distribute native
    code but to integrate with an environment that’s presumably
    already there. So on a first approach that makes sense to
    me.</p>

    <aside>
    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I cleaned up the
    spec and added some script, now it’s nicer.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> I am a bit surprised
    that ReSpec can’t solve these things for you, but if it works
    now, fine</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I’ll keep digging the
    respec doc, but for now it works</p>
    </aside>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> We had a recent meeting as
    a kick off just to established the outline, now we need to fill
    things in.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Anything to discuss here
    now?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>aswan:</cite> First we need to fill in
    the document, then work through issues.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Ideally let’s work on
    the issues on github, and if something gets stuck we can use
    this call.</p>

    <h3 id="item03">Logo</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Our twitter feed still
    has an egg. This is embarassing.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Yes it is.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> We have a community design
    portal, that could be relevant.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>kmag</cite>&gt; <a href="https://github.com/mozilla/OpenDesign">https://github.com/mozilla/OpenDesign</a></p>

    <aside class=exit data-name="aswan">
    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>aswan</cite>&gt; I have another
    meeting starting, have to drop off...</p>
    </aside>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> I am skeptical of design
    by committee.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> It wouldn’t be that.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Then sure.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>shwetank:</cite> Can we start with
    something as a default, and improve on that as we get feedback?<br>
    ... I like 8.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Is this the updated version: <a href="https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/LogoIdeas.png">https://mikepie1.github.io/browserext-1/LogoIdeas.png</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Yes.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Strall poll: pick your
    favorite two, ranked.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>kmag</cite>&gt; 8, 7</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>mikepie</cite>&gt; 6, 5</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>Florian:</cite>&gt; 8, 5</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>shwetank</cite>&gt; 8, 9</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>AndersR</cite>&gt; 8, 9</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> It looks like an 8 to me.
    Everybody can live with that?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Sure.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Mike, please send me the
    good quality version, and I’ll use it for the twitter
    account.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>shwetank:</cite> Would prefer a while
    background</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> On Twitter you would only see the
    shield then, not the rounded corners.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>shwetank:</cite> Ok.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>scribe</cite>&gt;
    <strong>ACTION:</strong> kmag to get feedback on the logo from Mozilla
    [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-255314648<Paste>">https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-255314648</a>]</p>

    <h3 id="item04"><a href="https://browserext.github.io/browserext/">https://browserext.github.io/browserext/</a></h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I’ll walk you through
    the updates first.<br>
    ... I have registered the URI scheme.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> thanks</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Also referenced our
    specifications with SpecRef.<br>
    ... Also added the script I mentioned earlier to get nice
    formatting for WebIDL.<br>
    ... I’ve synced the issues in the spec and github.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Nice, thanks.</p>

    <aside class="note">
    <p>Issue numbers mentioned in this discussion are not stable,
    and may change as the specification is updated.</p>
    </aside>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Issue 1 and 2 and large
    todos for myself.<br>
    ... We talked about trying to be consistent on IDs. I would be
    ok with not doing that, but if we should do it, doing it now
    would be good. I’ll talk to my team<br>
    ... Issues in green are marked as resolved. I’ll remove them
    with the next pull request, so I’d like you to confirm that
    they’re all OK.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> We removed the mention
    of bookmarks.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Can do it later
    right?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Yes, they are just not not part of the
    core. Can be grafted on later.<br>
    ... The availability of APIs is now we defined
    in terms of the default <abbr title="Content Security Policy">CSP</abbr>, with a link to it.
    This is issues 6, 7, and 8.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Issue 10 (github #19): I
    had text about content scripts and immediate events and delayed
    events, and I wasn’t quite sure what it meant anyway, so I’ve
    removed for now.<br>
    ... Issue 11: at tpac we had decided to remove the optional
    permission part of the table. Now that’s done.<br>
    ... I specified that unknown manifest keys can be ignored.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Do have normative text
    about the mechanism to require some keys, to deal with forward
    compatibility?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I don’t think that’s in
    there yet.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I’ll add an issue for
    that.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Yes, it would be good to
    have in the spec now that unknown keys can be otherwise ignored.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Issue 13 is about my bit
    of helper javascript.<br>
    ... Issue 14. Waiting for Andrey</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Please @-mention him
    (and me) in github. Will follow up.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Issues 15/16: at <abbr title="Technical Plenary / Administrative Committee">TPAC</abbr> we agreed
    on formatting for the webIDL, so I made these changes.<br>
    ... 18. This was just a work item for me, I filled a section
    in.<br>
    ... Issue 19 / gh11. At TPAC we agreed about removing the
    extension object because it was redundant with runtime. So I
    did that.<br>
    ... Issue 20 / 21: These are just work items for me.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I’ll add in some
    documentation from our code. Chrome’s documentation is a bit
    light, so there are details to fill in</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Thanks.<br>
    ... I have started to do some research about whether our API coverage
    is sufficient for good support of basic extensions.<br>
    ... Adding lastError and onInstalled would help,
    as they are used by a lot of extensions.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> Not sure about lastError.
    Not really needed if we’re going the promises.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Didn’t we say we kept
    callbacks as a fall-back?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> That’s what Firefox does,
    but I thought said we would not including that in the browser
    name space, and if you want to do callbacks, you’d do it with a
    polyfil, maybe under the chrome name space</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> That’s what we were
    discussing, but we hadn’t resolved.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>shwetank:</cite> I think I want callback
    fallbacks, but I’ll think about this.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> The polyfill library I
    wrote only supports promises in the browser namespace. We
    could do it the other way around</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>kmag</cite>&gt;
    <a href="https://github.com/mozilla/webextension-polyfill">https://github.com/mozilla/webextension-polyfill</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> We need an issue in
    github to track this debate. I'll open it.</p>

    <p><i>This was later registered as <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/38">issue 38</a></i>.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> One last thing. It looks
    like "capture visible tab" and "onReplaced" would help cover a
    lot more extensions</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I am not sure about onReplaced.
    We have it as a stub, but it is not backed by actual
    functionality. I don’t actually know when Chrome actually
    triggers it, the documentation is unclear.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>shwetank:</cite> I haven’t seen people use
    it.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> So we can skip that
    one.</p>

    <h3 id="item05">Next meeting</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>all:</cite> [argue back and forth]</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> So we go with Monday
    November the 7th, half an hour earlier than today (anchored
    on US time zones).</p>
  </div>

  <h2><a name="ActionSummary">Summary of Action Items</a></h2>
  <!-- Action Items -->
  <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> Florian to try and arrange a call with web payment people
  [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6#issuecomment-255313904">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/6#issuecomment-255313904</a>]<br>

  <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> kmag to get feedback on the logo from Mozilla
  [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-255314648">https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/12#issuecomment-255314648</a>]<br>
