---
title: Browser Extension CG teleconf â€” 09 Sep 2016
date: 2016-09-09
---

  <p><a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-browserext/2016Sep/0000.html">
  Agenda</a></p>

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/09/09-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees" id="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>Florian (Florian Rivoal), mikepie (Mike Pietraszak), kmag (Kris Maglione)</dd>

      <dt>Regrets</dt>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">Agenda</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">TPAC</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item03">Liaison with Testing and Tools
        WG/WebDriver</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item04">https://github.com/browserext/browserext/pull/4</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item05">Status update on
        https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>

    <li><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of
    Resolutions</a></li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">
    
    <h3 id="item01">Agenda</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Any other item you would
    like to add to the agenda?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> nope</p>

    <h3 id="item02">TPAC</h3>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/wiki/2016-TPAC-Agenda">
    https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/wiki/2016-TPAC-Agenda</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> This is a wikipage to
    prepare for TPAC;<br>
    ... please add topics you want to discuss, and your name if you
    plan to attend.<br>
    ... It should be publicly writteable</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Looks editable to me.</p>

    <h3 id="item03">Liaison with Testing and Tools
    WG/WebDriver</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I will be able to attend
    the testing sessions on Monday / Tuesday as an observer.<br>
    ... John Jansen from MS will there and able to represent
    us.<br>
    ... We'll request that this topic be added when the chairs make
    a call for the agenda.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> This hasn't been brought
    to that group yet, has it?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Only as a side comment
    maybe.<br>
    ... I'll check if the link I have is the latest version, and
    then add to our own agenda as well.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> So we wait for feedback
    from that group before there is anything more to discuss here,
    right?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Right.</p>

    <h3 id="item04"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/pull/4">https://github.com/browserext/browserext/pull/4</a></h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> I've done a light
    review. I think it can be merged before my comments are
    addressed and then we track them individually, but if you want
    to fix them before, that's great too.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I'll review and send comments today.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I try to follow the
    proposal around the web IDL, looking for feedback on that.<br>
    ... There a huge hole: the callback functions aren't defined
    yet.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Might be a good topic for
    TPAC.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> kmag, do you want
    merge-then-comment, or comment-fix-then-merge?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I'd like to comment
    first.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Do we really need the
    extension object?<br>
    ... Much of the APIs there that aren't yet deprecated in Chrome are
    duplicated elsewhere.<br>
    ... I think getURL is the only thing left.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think Chrome is moving to
    deprecate, but getURL is the big chunk that's left and hard to
    remove.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> For now I think we can
    leave it in, but we'll need to come back to it.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> We can spec AND
    depreacate, if this isn't the way forward, but is still
    something UAs need for compat reasons.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We try not to support
    deprecated stuff.<br>
    ... I don't think we need getBackgroundPage and the like. These
    are the kind of things we may come back to, but don't need in
    the first spec.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Do you want to go
    through the comments I've made in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/pull/4#issuecomment-245791954">
    https://github.com/browserext/browserext/pull/4#issuecomment-245791954</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> sure<br>
    ... Comment 1 about titles: I started with something like what
    you suggested, but changed cause it felt long. Happy to change
    back.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Please do, would be
    easier to understand.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Comment 2: I think this
    is normative, and I'll add details about what happens if you try
    disallowed things anyway.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> We should define that as a
    CSP ruleset, rather than prose.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'll look at that.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Comment 3: you say two
    things cannot be set at the same time. What happens if you try?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> That's browser specific, we
    support both at the same time.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I think Chrome and Edge
    reject the manifest if you have both<br>
    ... I'll make sure the language is clear</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Since Chrome and Edge
    differ from Mozilla, does one side plan to align with the
    other?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b>We'd rather not change.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I'll put some language
    around that.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Yes, please spec it one
    way, and add an issue about not all browsers doing it that way at the
    moment.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Comment 4:
    CheckAnyPermissions is defined in MDN, what do we do about
    that?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Should be in the IDL spec
    eventually, link to MDN for now is fine.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Agreed. Put an inline
    issue to remind ourselves to have a normative source
    eventually.<br>
    ... Comments 5 and 6 are about the IDL-explaining examples. I
    liked having one, wasn't sure why there was two.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> The second one got a
    value pulled from the manifest, and in the permissions, there's
    an array.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Can't we just keep the
    second example, and it covers everything?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Can do that.<br>
    ... I've heard that this kind of example wasn't necessary / w3c
    like, so I can remove.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> There are different
    styles in writing specs. Some prefer to-the-point specs, with
    as little fluff as necessary, other prefer making them more
    readable and self explanatory to novices.<br>
    ... Do as you prefer. I prefer having examples and
    explanations.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I just noticed I messed
    up the section numbering. Will fix.<br>
    ... In the IDL, I've used optional in several places, but I
    don't think that's permitted.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> The IDL way to that is to
    add a question mark.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Will do that</p>

    <h3 id="item05">Status update on <a href="https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/">https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/</a>
</h3>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I haven't been involved
    with the spec much. Hoped Andrew would be there, but he isn't.
    Happy to talk about the open issues.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> Issue list: <a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I think all these issues
    belong together, and they seem to pertain mostly to web
    payments. It is not clear yet to me how they are related to
    what we're doing.</p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/1">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/1</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> It seems to me that what
    is proposed is a different API for a specific use case, not a
    generic solution. Maybe the specialized API is better for that
    use case, but I don't see how it addresses the generic
    concern.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I think it is more a
    question about mobile.</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution01"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/1#issuecomment-245807421">RESOLUTION: Close issue 1 as wontfix, because
    this does not seem to address the generic solution, only a
    specialized use case.</a></strong></p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/2">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/2</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> This is a proposal to allow
    native messagine to web pages, not just extensions.<br>
    ... Doesn't seem related to extensions, and the security
    aspects seem underspecified.</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution02"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/2#issuecomment-245802521">RESOLUTION: Close as out of scope</a></strong></p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/3">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/3</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> This is a follow up to
    number 2.<br>
    ... Not relevant in the context of extensions.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> I agree. Issue 4 seems to
    be the same. I don't see how it relates to extensions.</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution03">RESOLUTION: <a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/3#issuecomment-245802980"close issue 3</a> and <a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/4#issuecomment-245803497"> issue 4</a>, out of scope for
    extensions. Redirect to the WebPlatform WG.</strong></p>

    <p class="phone"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/5">https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/5</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> Not sure this is needed as
    a special parameter. Such information can be communicated
    later.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Doing it this way
    constrains the format, later it can be anything.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> This may be about command
    line parameters.<br>
    ... Doesn't seem necessary, you can do that with a message.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>mikepie:</b> Initialization can send
    any data it wants, in any format it wants, so this isn't
    necessary.</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution04"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/native-messaging/issues/5#issuecomment-245801773">RESOLUTION: Close as wontfix, this can be achieved with existing communication mechanisms</a></strong></p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> kmag, when do you think
    aswan can have a draft for the messaging spec?</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>kmag:</b> I'll check with him. Will
    let you know if we cannot have it before TPAC.</p>

    <p class="phone"><b>Florian:</b> That's the end of the
    agenda. We're adjourned. See you at TPAC.</p>
  </div>

  <h2><a name="ResolutionSummary" id="ResolutionSummary">Summary of
  Resolutions</a></h2>
<!-- Resolutions -->

  <ol>
    <li><a href="#resolution01">Close issue 1 as wontfix, because
    this does not seem to address the generic solution, only a
    specialized use case.</a></li>

    <li><a href="#resolution02">Close as out of scope</a></li>

    <li><a href="#resolution03">close 3 and 4, out of scope for
    extensions. Redirect to the WebPlatform WG.</a></li>

    <li><a href="#resolution04">Close as wontfix, this can be
    achieved with existing communication mechanisms</a></li>
  </ol>
