---
title: Browser Extension TPAC breakout session â€” 08 Nov 2017
date: 2017-11-08
---
<h2><a name="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

<aside class=note><p>Not all participants recorded their presence or name in IRC. If you are missing from this list or know someone who is, please <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/pulls">send a pull request</a>.</p></aside>

<div class="intro">
	<dl>
		<dt>Present</dt>

		<dd>Chaals McCathie Neville (chaals), Florian Rivoal (florian), Vincent Scheib (scheib), John Hazen (John), Thomas Wisniewski (twisniewski), Fuqiao, Max, Judyzhu, Hiroki_Asakimori (Hiroki Asakimori), tom, MK</dd>

		<dt>Chair</dt>

		<dd>florian</dd>

		<dt>Scribe</dt>

		<dd>chaals</dd>
	</dl>
</div>

<h2>Contents</h2>

<ul>
	<li>
		<a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

		<ol>
			<li><a href="#item01">Current Status</a></li>
			<li><a href="#item02">Rebuild group?</a></li>
		</ol>
	</li>

</ul>
<hr>

<div class="meeting">

	<h3 id="item01">Current Status</h3>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> Everyone had their own
	extension mechanisms, and then people started looking to use
	Google's one, and then Opera switched to blink and got it<br>
	... firefox and MS have things that are very close. This CG was
	trying to standardise it.<br>
	... documentation and code went well, not much standardisation
	work.</p>


	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> few people participate in meetings.</p>

	<aside class=note>
		<ul>
			<li><a href="https://browserext.github.io/">https://browserext.github.io/</a></p></li>
			<li><a href="https://browserext.github.io/browserext/">https://browserext.github.io/browserext/</a></li>
			<li><a href="https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/">https://browserext.github.io/native-messaging/</a></li>
		</ul>
	</aside>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> we have a website, 2 specs,
	and they have been not moved much for 6 months.<br>
	... Looking for people willing to work on this, because it
	would be nice to have tests, etc<br>
	... We had browsers for a while. Some extension developers
	would like to participate, but cannot do it all.</p>


	<p class="phone"><b>John:</b> From Edge, we continue to
	be interested. But the person doing stuff here got moved. We
	ould like this to move forward.<br>
	... what do we want to do next - we focused on common subset
	essential for large extgension developers.<br>
	... To what extent could we get Google to participate more? It
	was notably lacking in the past but there are a lot of people
	in here.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>scheib:</b> Work on Chrome. Don't think
	we have direct contributors to extensions area here, but I am
	familiar with them.<br>
	... When the project launched to standardise we discussed and
	made some statements of what we were interested in doing - from
	Devlin.<br>
	... Google are interested in standardising some portions if we
	can work on a standard that moves forward addressing known
	problems with the system.<br>
	... the platform solved problems we had seen in older systems.
	But we did it very desktop-focused, learned a lot about how
	people abuse the system<br>
	... trying to promote malware :( The majority of users are
	moving to mobile, the system is not a good fit for
	mobile.<br>
	... Especially for performance.<br>
	... We're interested in forward-looking work suitable for
	mobile addressing problems we see now.<br>
	... Also, some APIs should be very user-agent specific,
	allowing for substantial variation exposing custom
	functionality.<br>
	... Some things become common so we all do the same and then we
	can standardise, but not everything.<br>
	... This approach has a cost - the extensions developer
	community has to deal with changing API shapes.<br>
	... We are working on that so we will offer new capabilities
	only to people who move to the new architecture.<br>

	... Plugins have
	been around for ages. They offered serious feature power. But
	extension integrates with user agent, plugin just makes ahole
	and lets you do different stuff in there.<br>

	... so how de we
	enable new capabilities out of the box, and get us onto
	mobile.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> There was
	interest to make the extension world connect to stuff outside
	the browser.<br>

	... Interested in
	the statement about your goals and concerns - I had heard
	earlier as more like "we're busy and don't want to be held back
	from breaking things."<br>

	... there is
	willingness in the community to make breaking change. And agree
	that we are not looking for 100% compat on everything.<br>

	... Think the
	status quo was not seen as a goal but as a starting point.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>twisniewski:</b> Representing
	Andy McKay - we're interested in getting involved and working
	together, now we are not so buried in development work.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>tom:</b> have an
	extension on a couple of stores. aliasing a couple of things
	was really easy. Getting it to work was one thing - getting it
	in the stores was another = publishing process is a
	bottleneck.<br>

	...Any change
	requires rebuilding assets, etc. That was a pain, while coding
	is really simple now.<br>

	... understand
	branding requirements, can we relax it?</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>John:</b> in the
	beginning we focused on APIs, knowing the publication pipelines
	would be difficult and different.<br>

	... so it sounds
	like we got that bit done and can talk on how to make
	publishing better. There are some aspects of the ecosystem that
	are tightly couple to the user agent, some coupled to the
	underlying platform.<br>

	... don't want to
	get so bogged down in resolving those differences that we
	cannot move forward the core API stuff. But we feel that pain
	too, other developers reflect your comment.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> Agree on
	priority. Distribution is not just technical, there are
	business considerations. If the business side wants to share,
	the technical side should support that as far as possible.<br>

	... side stores
	for internal use, as well as public app stores, are important.
	we want to look at that, but it wasn't / isn't the first
	priority</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>John:</b> Edge is
	struggling to find performance budget to get a nice platform
	for extensions on mobile at the moment, but we are very
	interested in the discussion.<br>

	... So most of our
	concern will be on desktop but we welcome work that is more
	focused on enabling mobile-friendly platform</br>

	... I don't hear
	anything in the discussion that makes me think we are going to
	run into some intractable conflict if we move forward.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>scheib</b> packaging and
	publishing - we should be looking at web app manifest.<br>

	... Service
	Workers had a lot of antecedents.<br>

	... We should work
	with web standards for e.g. packaging.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> Makes sense to
	go that way if it's where people want to go.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>John</b> Sounds
	reaonsable.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>chaals:</b> There are
	intertwined histories of app/extensions and web standards</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>scheib:</b> We may get
	more traction by framing the discussions to make sure we are
	bringing things closer into the Web ecosystem, where
	possible.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>twisniewski:</b> We also want
	to focus on what is relevant, and agree that moving into the
	Web platform as far as it makes sense is the way to go.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>John</b> Big
	challenge for moving to pure web manifest / Web distribution
	model is our concern over security / privacy issues.<br>

	... We have chosen
	to have very constrained distribution model, to help us handle
	those concerns.<br>

	... Also coupled
	to security issues arising from great power. Moving beyond
	store model, we would need to address this.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>scheib</b> Think we
	should package the assets, but no problem with allowing for
	curated store as the primary channel.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>John:</b> Makes
	sense.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>twisniewski:</b> Collaboration
	on security / privacy issues would be really helpful. Everyone
	keeps their own mechanisms and approaches.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>MK:</b> would it be
	possible to extend the browser with new protocols?<br>

	... we try to
	extend into WoT - can that be better supported in Web
	Browsers?</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> If we can do
	it outside extensions in Web PLatform, that would be better.
	Otherwise, where we look at using plugin-type extension might
	be an approach.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>twisniewski:</b> My experience
	is that if it fits in the Web itself, we would rather do
	that.<br>

	... Sooo, "Yes.
	And No."<br>

	... start a
	discussion, and we will try to figure out what happens. Don't
	be discouraged if something is not getting traction,
	iterate.<br>

	... We are busy,
	and forget to be diplomatic sometimes.</p>

	<h3 id="item02">Rebuild group?</h3>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> What is a good
	work mode for people to move forward?<br>

	... we had github
	and some teleconfs. Should we do just github, lots of telecons,
	something else that a person not here needs to describe?</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>chaals:</b> No github ==
	death. Weekly telecon is required to make sure people are
	generally available, but too frequent for this.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> Yeah, that's how we ended here.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>John:</b> I think
	there are clearly needs to talk to people outside this room
	first, I think we will need some teleconfs, but we can make a
	lot of progress on github and not suffer too much pain on
	teleconfs.<br>

	... I'll look for
	people who can participate.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> I can host
	teleconf - even not being there if that somehow helps.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>chaals:</b> A periodic
	email can serve a similar forcing function - not as effectively
	as a teleconf buit without having to run a teleconf.</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>florian:</b> That seems
	feasible</p>

	<p class="phone"><b>twisniewski:</b> We're busy...
	been trying to replace our legacy API set with new stuff,
	aiming to make it shareable.<br>

	... trying to add
	features that are extensions rather than extending the Web in
	extensions.<br>

	... We have
	bi-weekly meetings on this, and people are welcome to attend
	and tell us not to build piles of APIs nobody wants that will
	lead to fragmentation as others do it differently...</p>
</div>
