---
title: Browser Extension CG teleconf â€” 18 Jan 2017
date: 2017-01-18
---

  <p><a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-browserext/2017Jan/0002.html">
  Agenda</a></p>

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2017/01/18-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>Anders Rundgren (AndersR), Mike Pietraszak (mikepie), Scott Low (scottlow), Florian Rivoal (Florian)</dd>

      <dt>Regrets</dt>
      <dd>Andrew Swan</dd>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Let me give some updates on the status of the specs.<br>
    ... I've made some commits and merged pull requests to make things easier to review..<br>
    ... One part of this was fixing ReSpec errors,<br>
    ... and I've added a number of place holders.<br>
    ... Another group of change was about correctly marking informative vs normative sectoins,
    as well as correctly using MUST vs SHOULD terminology.<br>
    ... Also scottlow made a big substantive change.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>scottlow:</cite> My change is about webdriver.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> We discussed several
    changes to webdriver during TPAC.<br>
    ... Kris has suggestions about ways to extend it, and scottlow
    made some proposals along these lines.<br>
    ... It would be good to get feedback from other browser vendors
    on that.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> If we don't manage to
    get Mozilla on board today, and it seems we may not, I'll try
    and figure out how to reengage.<br>
    ... Shwetank has rejoined the group a week ago, from a different company.<br>
    ... I have confirmed with Opera that they are still interested,
    but it is not yet clear who they can assign.
    We will be updated when possible.<br>
    ... In the absence of a full browser vendor quorum, I'm afraid
    we have to cut this short. I will be in touch with Mozilla and
    try to arrange a new meeting as soon as practical.</p>
  </div>
